---
layout: post
title:  "Shape of Things to Come"
date:   2017-08-17
excerpt: "Gian is busy at work. With a number of projects all happening around the same time frame, getting back into the swing of things is going to take some hard work. But Gian is not dettered. In fact, he's laser focused, determined and newly-inspired to finish the creation of his new vision and he cannot wait to share what he's got in store."
image: "/images/marktum.jpg"
---

At the start of 2018, I started to wonder about Frantik Magazine. At first, it was nostalgia, looking through old articles, interviews, live reviews, cd reviews, frantik girls and all that was covered. You're probably wondering how as Frantikmag.com is nowhere to be found online. Well kids, I saved the hard files before deleting the existence of Frantikmag.com</p>
Many people wondered why I shuttered my very own creation and the answer is simple: frustration. I was frustrated at the way Frantik was going, seeming to stay stagnant in over a year, even though operations and everything else was ramped up for success. Now don't get me wrong, it was a success, but my frustrations somehow never left me and I started to take the same frustration home every night and it really started to fuck me up, mentally. 

The team I had unfortunately didn't come across the frustrations I had as I literally took everything on and did everything to make sure whatever needed to get done, was going to get done without fail. Many of my frustrations built up from there, all to my own fault because I couldn't trust anyone else to run the company.

After many years, I've finally come into a crossroad in my life and after thinking about it over and over again, I decided that this may be the right time to get back to the swing of things. It will be a bit different this time around as the model has changed and I'd be able to flex other muscles instead of staring at the same niche. Needless to say, muscles will be flexed and this time, I'll be able to handle much better.

I'm still in the planning process. But even now, I can feel my creative juices flowing, my brain humming and my intentions ultra clear. Making light of things that went wrong, it's given me a whole new look at what Frantik could be in this day in age. I'm definitely focused, determined and am gearing up to get back in the game.

I'm excited.

I haven't been excited for a project in so long. I'm taking it all day by day but day after day, it starts to feel more right then it ever did. The impact may not be the same this time around but I've got super high hopes that this journey will be much more substantial in all aspects from content to finance to lasting impressions. The one thing I'm sure of though...is that people will appreciate the value that my new venture will bring and I cannot wait for people tojoin the venture and find a new hub that they can call home.

It's totally happening.
