The Beauty of Going to Musical Instrument Stores in the 90's, before the internet

Back in the 90's, the only way to see and play guitars was by going to the musical stores. It was an experience. Before the internet
arrived and gave everyone the chance to purchase a guitar online, going to a musical store was it. People frequented all of the local
musical stores and crowded the big box musical stores. Some went to pawn shops, antique stores and local auctions to chase the guitar they were
after. 

It was a totally different time.

Seeing a guitar in person that you had previously seen only in magazine ads and posters was an absolute treat. I mean, this is why
most people are able to buy a Gibson, Martin, Fender or Gretsch online without trying it out first because of the brands reputation 
from years of people playing and purchasing them at musical stores. Sure, you can say rock star influence plays a part and you're right,
but believe me, my friends, community and I bought guitars from musical stores. It was the cool kid thing to do!

The experience was completely fascinating. There were days where you popped in and stayed for hours, trying out different 
guitars, amps, pedals and whatnot and some days were short runs for strings, picks and cables. Some days you came for a free clinic
or workshops to see your favorite guitarist and learn a thing or two and some days you went to see the next big thing. It was 
basically like a kid going to a toy store but with awesome guitars. The stock inventory was wild.

Although musical stores are still around, the sheer number of them is low and the experience is really not quite the same, even though, 
the operations seem to be? 

Chain owners and workers from these musical stores were also a big help to their communities and to everyone in general. Most had knowledge
of the guitar brands they sold and helped people choose which guitar would be right for them, sans the price. Talking to the chain
owners, shoppers and workers also helped build a sense of support for musicians, big and small, which in turn created camaraderie amongst 
each other and helped built rapport within guitar communities and groups and spread the word. Local shops treated local shoppers like family (not all though)
and that's one of the things I truly miss.

But the days of chain owners and workers possessing valuable knowledge that the public couldn't get their hands on is over, thanks to the internet.
The type of specialized knowledge is now readily available online, complete with explanations, diagrams and videos.

Going to musical instrument stores also gave you and your friends another reason to meet up, debate and dream about musical instruments
throughout the day. There was a certain mystery about guitars as information was not readily available, leaving you to peruse, try and
find the one that fitted you. It didn't really matter if you were actually buying a guitar that day but it did matter that you found the one
that's for you, which is still hard to do these days and probably much harder with all these new guitar brands.

And speaking of new guitar brands, today, you can find new guitar companies sprinkled all over the internet. Prices, style, build, 
and custom guitars are all the rage online but for an old schooler like me, I just can't committ to some. I myself have to be able to 
give a guitar a good go before I can completely say "this one's mine" or "this one's tremendously awesome." This also presents a problem for 
the last standing music instrument stores as the newer guitar brands are not at all concerned about getting their guitars in the big
box musical instrument stores and that's fine. I actually love that new guitar brands are getting their due cause as the world changes,
we'd actually like to see different guitars from different makers, luthiers and companies.

But for players like me, that don't work. 

I need to be able to get my hands on it, period.

If you're wondering how we got here, it's simple. Musical instrument stores failed in adapting to the new business model. The rise of internet catalogs
and peer-to-peer marketplaces from Musicians Friend, Amazon and others created diversification, providing marketplaces for musicians to sell and trade. You can include 
Craigslist onto that pile as well. I myself scored a used American Fender Strat for $350 on Craigslist when it was selling for retail at around $900. So if you 
want to look at it this way, the internet killed the musical instrument stores but not without warning. Big box musical stores are now adapting to
new business models but overall, the damage has been done.

What do I mean by this? 

Well, do you still shop all your groceries from big box grocery chains? Probably but a huge majority of consumers are now looking for smaller, independent, 
innovative brands with consumer conscious products. I've seen all sorts of different guitar brands re-envisioning their processes and materials
by using from recycled wood bodies, aluminum bodies, specialized customizations and wood and metals from around the world. It's actually
exciting and refreshing and is life now for most guitar players.

Today's click and buy generation actually have an easier time choosing a guitar that they think is right for them. Let's be honest, it starts at the price range. 
Well, the price is right when you're a beginner looking for a $200 guitar. It's right there and just makes full sense to purchase now and get it delivered 
straight to your home, instead of taking the time and effort to go down to a musical instrument store and maybe coming out empty-handed. 

But even as I digressIt was an exciting time back then.  
