---
layout: post
title:  "Chris Cornell + Acid + Soundgarden's 4th of July"
categories: Article
date:   2019-07-02
comments: true
excerpt: "What did you think the song acually meant? Find out."
image: "/images/cornelllives.jpg"
---
Long live Chris Cornell, Rock God.

Chris Cornell passed away back in May of 2017 due to an apparent suicide, which I still find truly hard to believe until today.
He not only fronted Soundgarden, Audioslave and Temple of the Dog but made those bands household names by sharing his unique voice and
writing amazing songs that will stand the test of time. Chris was truly beloved in the rock community and the news of his passing came 
as a massive shock in the music industry. I myself, felt like I lost a friend. I listened to Chris' voice profusely and even more when 
he passed.

Before we get into the acid part, here's my own Chris Cornell story. It ain't much but here it goes.

I remember the two times I actually ran into Chris Cornell. I didn't have the balls to actually come up and introduce myself cause 
I don't fanboy on rockstars or celebs. Not going to lie though, I had an overwhelming urge to do so since I was totally enamored with
his voice but backed out once he actually said "Hey." Instead of introducing myself, I just gave him a smile and a nod to which he 
smiled back, nodded and proceeded to walk outside for a cigarette break. Thinking back to it now, man I feel like a turd. All I 
had to do was introduce myself, talk and make friends but instead, I acted like I was part of the status even though I was nowhere near
their status. Again, I now feel like a turd thnking back to this moment.

Mind you, we were in an environment out of the public eye so Chris was all chill, energetic and friendly. My then band was recording our
first EP and Chris was recording his first solo effort. We were two rooms down from his and get this, Linkin Park was in another room not
adjacent to Chris' room. Fucking weird right? For context purposes, my band was getting the "friends special" cause we knew the owner, staff
and people in the circle so we got to record in the rooms when they weren't booked. Gotta love friends in high places! This is 
one of the reasons why we ran into industry musicians all the time cause we would come down to the studios on a whim whenever there was 
an opening to take advantage of recording. But hey, for minimal charge, we got to record in a studio where hit records are still being made
today. We were blessed.

The second time I ran into Chris was at industry event in Los Angeles. I can't pin point exactly which event it was but there he was, 
again, steps away from me and what you know....the same fkn thing happened. A smile and a nod, even after I was introduced. He looked
at me and kind of squinted like 'Do I know you?' but again, I gave nothing. Fucking nothing. No I didn't freeze, I just really didn't
have anything to say at that moment as I was completely drained from the night before. I wish I can tell you more of the night but I 
got pretty blasted and before I knew it, it was morning so apologies my friends. 

Alright, enough about my shit, here's excerpts from an interview Chris did with RIP Magazine regarding the real meaning behind the song
"4th of July."

