---
layout: post
title:  "If You're a Serious Musician or Gearhead, You Should Be at The NAMM Show In Anaheim"
categories: Guitar
date:   2018-09-28
excerpt: "Definitely one of the best places to network and learn all about musical products and upcoming innovations in music, hands-down."
image: "/images/nmm.jpg"
---
The NAMM Show is well underway! The 2019 NAMM Show is currently located and being held at the Anaheim convention center in Anaheim, CA
and will run from January 24-27. For me, there's two parts to NAMM. Here's the first part.

What the hell is the NAMM show anyways? Well, my curious friend, here's a description, taken directly from their website:

"The NAMM Show is the definitive platform for the music, sound and event technology communities to unite, featuring more than 7,000 brands, cutting-edge industry education, as well as exclusive special events, concerts and experiences. Last year, a record 115K attendees explored products from more than 1,700 exhibitors 
showcasing over 7K brands. Plus, attendees are able to choose from 400+ educational sessions and more than 150+ networking events."

If that description wasn't enough to hook you in or pique your curiosity, add special live performances, amazing after parties and did I mention 
networking with people who matter in the industry? That's right, a who's who in the music industry will be in attendance and you will have
first perspective contact with some of the most important people in the music and tech industry. Literally, they all just walk freely around the convention 
because they know that it's mostly all industry folks. Dealers and Distributors will be doing actual work btw so try not to intrude or be rude for
that matter but if you really need to get a hold of someone, say a rockstar, insert yourself and assert your intentions. It may go funny or it might be gold.

Which brings me to my next point, the NAMM show is not open to the public.

Yup, unfortunately, to get into this convention, you will either have to be an owner, supplier, employee, be an endorsed artist or is a guest of one of the 
NAMM member companies. 

What does this actually mean for the public or people that want to go? It's exactly what it means, its restricted with super tight security. Does
this mean you can't get in? Probably. But if you have friends in any NAMM member company, this is your best bet in getting a badge and getting in. NAMM
member companies get badges depending on the size of the company or how many employees they have. Don't 
know if your friends are part of the NAMM member company list? This can give you a good idea: <a href="https://www.namm.org/thenammshow/2019/directory">NAMM Show Directory</a>.
Now is the time to brush up with your friends and see who your real friends are. For more info on membership, <a href="https://www.namm.org/membership">go here.</a>

By the way, NAMM stands for National Association of Music Merchants. Don't be fooled by the acronym though, NAMM has evolved from a national retail association into a national association that includes 
commercial companies, distributors, affiliates and manufacturers. The NAMM show is basically that biggest trade-only event for music products, 
pro-audio and the event tech industry. It's truly a sight to see and an experience to be had!

The convention hours are 10am to 6pm, Thurs.-Sat. and 10am to 5pm on Sunday, the last day.

AND NOW.....the 2nd part of the NAMM Show, where I give you first-hand experiences and some info you really want to know.

<b>You will walk. A LOT.</b> 

Think about the Anaheim Convention Center. It's huge. Now think bout 1700 exhibitors promoting 7K brands. Add the walk from parking lots (map below), to places to eat, 
to bars, the Marriott, the Hilton and other spots that line the convention center inside and out. It's a lot and believe me, even just one day of walking 
is enough to question whether you want to see the next 3 days. I've gone from wearing boots the first year to wearing running shoes the last. Nothing is a short walk
from where you are, not even the concession stands.

<b>The after parties at the Mariott and the Hilton are top-notch.</b>

When the convention ends at 6pm, the after parties begin. Although there are after parties happening all over town in each and every bar, restaurant or what have you, I'm going 
to suggest the most obvious ones because....it's right in front of the convention center. Book a room wwwwaaaayyyy ahead of time and stay at one of these hotels. If you do, you can be sure
not to get kicked out or asked to leave from the lobby when the party begins. It's usually a shit load of people anyways so if you want to not get a room and just hang at the lobby,
you can, at least for a time. My suggestion is don't set up camp and work the room. This is where you can really network. This is also where you can buy rockstars a drink, take a photo
or just hang with them. Really. Get your ass in gear and mingle, you never know who you'll end up meeting and you never know if you'll be one of the lucky ones to get invited to a 
private party...because there are private parties happening in a lot of the rooms between these 2 hotels. Believe me, you'll want to be invited to one. Ever seen a rockstar get so fucked up 
they couldn't walk? Ever seen a rockstar invite all his rockstar friends and party like it's 1999? Ever seen a rockstar's girlfriend do so much cocaine that she couldn't stop divulging
details or just talking for that matter while her nose bleeds profusely? Right, you haven't. So trust me when I say, mingle your ass off. This is the pleasure part that we don't mix with 
business. Work the lobby, work the room. You're now rubbing elbows with rockstars and people that can make shit happen.

<b>Bring cash, a jacket, </b>












parking
