The Beauty of Going to Musical Instrument Stores in the 90's

Back in the 90's, the only way to see and play guitars was by going to the musical stores. It was an experience. Before the internet
arrived and gave everyone the chance to purchase a guitar online, going to a musical store was it. People frequented all of the local
musical stores and crowded the big box musical stores. Some went to pawn shops, antique stores and local auctions to chase the guitar they were
after. It was a totally different time.

Seeing a guitar in person that you had previously seen only in magazine ads and posters was an absolute treat. I mean, this is why
most people are able to buy a Gibson, Martin, Fender or Gretsch online without trying it out first because of the brands reputation 
from years of people playing and purchasing them at musical stores. Sure, you can say rock star influence plays a part and you're right,
but believe me, my friends, community and I bought guitars from musical stores. It was the cool kid thing to do!

The experience was completely fascinating. There were days where you popped in and stayed for hours, trying out different 
guitars, amps, pedals and whatnot and some days were short runs for strings, picks and cables. Some days you came for a free clinic
or workshops to see your favorite guitarist and learn a thing or two and some days you went to see the next big thing. It was 
basically like a kid going to a toy store but with awesome guitars. Although musical stores are still around, the sheer number of them 
is low and the experience is really not quite the same, even though, the operations seem to be.

Chain owners and workers from these musical stores were also a big help to their communities and to everyone in general. Most had knowledge
of the guitar brands they sold and helped people choose which guitar would be right for them, sans the price. Talking to the chain
owners, shoppers and workers also helped build a sense of support and cammaraderie amongst each other and built rapport within
guitar communities and groups. Local shops treated local shoppers like family and that's one of the things I truly miss.

